Eli Sobylak									8-Feb-2015
Workshop- Essay on Tavani Ch. 5
      Is The United States doing all that it can to ensure equal and effective privacy for all its parties and persons? It seems that the US has displayed minimal effort to reconcile this debate, and always seems to be quite some steps behind its global counterparts. Here I will explore how the US has failed to acknowledge various privacy rights with a focus on individual privacy rights.
	It was in 1974 that The United States Congress implemented the Privacy Act. This act was put in place with the intention of regulating, maintaining, and disseminating personal information and was only applicable to federal executive branch agencies (Department of Justice, Privacy Act: Introduction, 1974). As Tavani suggests, this ended up not being relevant to the private sector and therefore most individuals. Tavani claims that this is a result of a “patchwork” of both individual state and federal efforts that never tend to be systematic or coherent (Tavani, 2013). 
	Another common issue when it comes to privacy concerns for consumers and individuals is the fact that US lawmakers have historically made it very difficult to make progress with advocating privacy rights. This is due to the underlying principle that would undermine the economic incentive that businesses and corporations have (Tavani, 2013). 
	The third point I am brining in is that The US is failing to acknowledge the evident problems with have with privacy especially when compared with some of our global equivalents. For example, the European Union’s Directive on Data Protection is specifically designed to protect the private and sensitive information of its citizens. It does this by prohibiting the flow of data from within its borders to other countries that do not have similar security and privacy standards (Tavani, 2013). A pretty interesting concept when you think about where The US might be sending some of our own data.
	In conclusion, it is evident that The US is not doing all that it can to give equal and effective privacy to all its citizens when compared to other countries around the world. We also saw that business use these legal loopholes to gain lucrative information about potential customers. And finally, how The US’s previous attempts to fix these problems in the past have been more like Band-Aids that are slowly loosing their ‘stick’. 
References:
Overview of the Privacy Act of 1974 | OPCL | Department of Justice. (1974). Retrieved February 8, 2015, from http://www.justice.gov/opcl/introduction
Tavani, H. T. (2013). Ethics and technology: controversies, questions, and strategies for ethical computing (Fourth edition). Hoboken, NJ: Wiley.

